It's been a fun journey.
I hope you've had the chance to take away some key topics as
you progress further into your CDK career.
Even if some or most of the content was already known to you,
I hope you can benefit from playing with components in the full
stack demo application in your own projects.
Let me take a few minutes to summarize,
check back in with Ellen and Josh and see how they're faring,
and then show you a really cool CDK UI‑driven concept to charge you on your way.
We first started in on learning about stacks and stack patterns.
Now that you understand the fundamental differences
between a stack and a construct,
it's likely that you might spend more time building constructs than full stacks.
If you do build constructs to be shared by the public,
drop me a line so I can go see if I can use your
constructs in some of my future projects.
In either case,
by now you can hopefully see that organizing stacks is just a
simple matter of organizing classes as you would in your normal
application development projects.
Remember, environments in AWS can get quite large, so always build
your stacks one organized block at a time and don't be shy to use
object‑oriented principles when you do.
From there,
we learned about environmental concepts as they relate to the CDK.
Building an environment can be made to be extremely simple and take
full advantage of CI/CD principles that you're likely very used to
at this point in your career.
Hopefully,
you can now think about how you would build a full pipeline with
IaC that would include fully‑reusable components from dev all the
way through to a production environment.
Next time your boss asks for another environment,
first tell him how hard it's going to be to build and then go deploy
your existing IaC with different target variables.
Okay, the fib to your boss is entirely up to you.
We then dove into a full‑bore module on learning about
parameters and variable context storage principles,
all under the guise of avoiding the pitfalls of tight coupling.
You now have a full quiver of arrows to use to store all
types of variables and pass them around to various
components and resources. Between context,
environment variables, and the SSM parameter store you should be taking
center stage on your discussion with architects on how and where to store
transient global data in your enterprise. In all cases,
take the concept of loose coupling as a guiding principle going forward.
My favorite module came next,
in which case we learned about building custom construct libraries.
My constructs will remain in my npmjs account,
so feel free to use them as you see fit.
Hopefully it's clear how building a full library of custom
constructs can make the composition of stacks and environments
very straightforward in your enterprise.
We took a little time as well to talk about testing while
still under the flag of construct libraries.
Testing with Jest can apply to all your CDK projects and provide the same
quality benefits you get with unit testing general applications. In that
regard, make this type of testing a standard practice in your organization
going forward. And while truly not specific only to security, aspects
showed us a way to apply cross‑cutting, tag‑style logic to our resources to
promote consistency,
security, and even convenience. I encourage you to use aspects as a
standard practice in tandem with Jest testing to create a consistent testing and security model in your development practices.